Huawei-P10-and-P10-Plus.md, before:

# Device Version for Huawei P10 or P10 Plus  
## VTR(P10)  
* VTR-AL00 -- CN Version(No SIM card restriction)   
* VTR-TL00 -- CN Version(China Mobile Company Customized version)  
* VTR-L09 -- Europe Version  
* VTR-L29 -- For Global Market Version  
  
## VKY(P10 Plus)  
* VKY-AL00 -- CN Version(No SIM card restriction) 
* VKY-TL00 -- CN Version(China Mobile Company Customized version)  
* VKY-L09 -- Europe Version
* VKY-L29 -- For Global Market Version  
  
***  

# GSI Test List  
**This list will tell you which GSI systems have been tested. If you have some problems and functional errors, please browse the following content first.**  
> Warning bulletin board：  
>> * Android 13 For Huawei P10 or P10 Plus is instable.You will face no SIM card recognition, no signal, and some hardware cannot be used or even not boot.  
>> * There are two kinds of storage chips for CN version devices, EMMC and UFS.Europe and Global Market Version Only UFS Chips.So this sometimes leads to some hidden errors.  
>> * New Version Android 13 fixed the boot issues.(Pixel Experience(Android 13)).  
>> * LineageOS 20 - Light Version won't boot!!(2022.11.09)
  
Europe or Global Version Tested List:  
***
Before Android 13:  
* Tested LineageOS on Huawei P10 Plus (VKY-L29)  
* Tested AOSP 10/11/12 on Huawei P10 (VTR-L29 9.0.1.201)  
***
Andriod 13+:
* Tested **[Pixel Experience (Android 13)](https://sourceforge.net/projects/altairfr-huawei/files/PixelExp/PixelExperience-13.0-20220930-iceows-ane.7z/download)** (VTR-L29 9.0.1.190)  
 
***
 
CN Version Tested List:  
***
Before Android 13:  
* Tested AOSP 12 on Huawei P10 (VTR-AL00 9.0.1.179(C00E65R1P12))  
* Tested **[Pixel Experience (Based Android 12)](https://github.com/ponces/treble_build_pe/releases)** on Huawei P10 (VTR-AL00 9.0.1.179(C00E65R1P12)),If you want use **Pixel Experience (Based Android 12)** ,you only can install slim version.Because system partition too small.Unless you use **TWRP + Parted** for system partition expansion.   
***    
Android 13+：
* Tested **[Pixel Experience (Based Android 13)](https://github.com/ponces/treble_build_pe/tree/thirteen)**.Version 2022.11.13.Work and fine.SIM Card,NFC,WLAN,Audio is work fine.

 
Tips:  
**Recommended Android GSI version:Android Q(Android 10).**  For Kirin 960, this version of Android can be used daily and is the most fluent.Some errors can be corrected in **Known issues**.  
> For example:Lineage OS 17,Havoc-OS v3.12 or else.  
  
## Unlock Bootloader Tool  
**[PotatoNV](https://github.com/mashed-potatoes/PotatoNV)**  
This is a Kirin SoC Unlock Bootloader Tool.Due to the particularity of partition locking designed by Huawei, Huawei mobile phones actually include two types of partition locking.One is called USER LOCK and the other is called BL LOCK.Unlock the BL LOCK only can flash the system,boot，recovery,userdata and more.Unlock the USER LOCK can flash the kernel，ODM，product and more.So you need unlock the all lock to flash the kernel or upgrade/downgrade to EMUI 5/8/9.  
This tool will help you unlock all lock.  
Tips:  
* First, please follow the official text and video tutorial of PotatoNV.
* Then,When you use the engineering boot file to enter a special fastboot mode, select the **Disable FBLock** option.This option will let you unlock the **USER LOCK**.  
* Next, you will restart to enter the normal fastboot mode. This is where you will see your device display unlocked. But you haven't completely unlocked it.At the same time, the PotatoNV will display a random 16 bit unlock code.
* Use the unlock code,in fastboot mode,enter the code. XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX is your 16 bit unlock code. 
` fastboot oem unlock XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX`  
* This time is really unlock all partition.
 
## Kernel Require
**Some GSI need SELinux is permissive mode.So you need flash the custom kernel. Because official Kernel don't have permissive mode.**  
> EMUI 8 Version:  
> > * [Proto8](https://forum.xda-developers.com/t/kernel-eas-8-0-8-1-9-0-gpusc-proto8-kernel-ofast.3780551/):Stable for All Version P10 or P10 Plus devices.  
> > * [HyperPlus Kernel](https://forum.xda-developers.com/t/kernel-eas-hyperplus-kernel-for-p10-p10-plus.3753128/):Stable for All Europe or Global Version P10 and P10 Plus devices.If your CN version device storage chip is ufs, you can use this kernel.Else you will get boot loop.   

  
> EMUI 9 Version:  
>> For CN Version:  
>> * **Recommended kernel:[Pangu Kernel](https://github.com/maimaiguanfan/android_kernel_huawei_hi3660).**  

## Hardware Support

No issues comparing stock Huawei ROM

## Known issues  
  
> If you have magisk, you can use this module to easily solve touchscreen and speakers issues.  
> [Android10 and 11 GSI Generic Fix Module For Huawei P10(Support Android 12 too.)](https://github.com/Coconutat/GSI_Generic_Fix_Magisk_Module_For_Huawei_P10)  

On Oreo vendor:
- Q roms do not boot. (Tested with 8.0.0.386)
- Oreo rom (8.1) did not boot for Snuupy.
- P roms work great and I think it could be used as daily drivers.

On Pie vendor:
- Q/R/S roms boot. Could be used as daily drivers.

* Speakers: Audio playback through speaker not working properly. Audio works through the 3.5mm jack. (Tested with both 9.1.0.252 and 9.0.1.185)
> Fixed on AOSP 12.0 v400.e

> See Fixes Below

* Touchscreen: Left and Right edge of the screen might not respond to touch due to Huawei aptouch service.
> See Fixes Below

* Camera:
> Ugly LineageOS stock camera app, OpenCamera is good but with slow autofocus.

There is a way to run [stock camera app (XDA)](https://forum.xda-developers.com/showpost.php?p=76662319&postcount=225) under LineageOS.

* SIM
> LineageOS asking to reboot when pulling in/out the SIM card. Just reject this requests.

> USSD (like *100#) requests are not working

> USSD seems to be working fine on EMUI 9.0 vendor (Tested on P10, test for yourself)

* WiFi, Mobile Data
> Working perfectly

> Mobile Data on Android 12 requires tuning on Phh Treble Settings > IMS features > Request IMS network

* Fingerprint Reader
> Working perfectly (Broken on Android 12 v400.e)

* Face unlock
> are now available on Pixel Experience v402 

* Fast charging
> Working perfectly

## Installation process

### Prerequisites:

* Stock EMUI 8.0/EMUI 9.0 by Huawei (tested from VKY-L29C10B362/VKY-AL00C00 8.0.0.358/VTR-L29C185E3R1P9T8)
* Unlocked bootloader

### Installation steps:

* Backup all your internal-storage stuff
* Perform factory reset using **stock Recovery**
* Install GSI image using fastboot as described on XDA

### Superuser (root) and/or Google Apps, if you wish:

* Install TWRP using fastboot from [here (XDA)](https://forum.xda-developers.com/p10-plus/development/recovery-twrp-3-2-1-0-oreo-t3734993)
* Reboot to TWRP pressing VolumeUp till it's loaded
* Leave system non-modified when TWRP ask for it
* In TWRP: install LineageOS **addonsu** from [LineageOS Extras](https://download.lineageos.org/extras) for arm64 v15.1
* In TWRP: install [from MindTheGapps](http://downloads.codefi.re/jdcteam/javelinanddart/gapps) the file MindTheGapps-8.1.0-arm64-20180320_011441.zip

### TWRP: important note

**DO NOT factory reset user data using TWRP,  ever!** This will break your internal storage! If you need to perform factory reset - flash stock Recovery using fastboot and wipe data in it.

If you will wipe data in TWRP, the LineageOS will not be able to write to userdata (/data) partition, initial device setup will not finish ever.

### Google Apps (GApps)

Why MindTheGapps??? Because [OpenGApps](https://opengapps.org/) is not working. When installing using TWRP it's rising error 20 detecting that we have wrong Android (it minds that we have Android 7.1.2 with wrong SDK level).

#### Note: OpenGapps for Android 9.0 (Pie) is now working for Pie GSIs.

## Fixes

### Fix for Speakers
Audio through speakers can be fixed by running these commands as root for every boot:

    chown root:audio /dev/nxp_smartpa_dev
    chmod 0660 /dev/nxp_smartpa_dev

Or running commands using `adb shell`:

    adb root
    adb shell chown root:audio /dev/nxp_smartpa_dev
    adb shell chmod 0660 /dev/nxp_smartpa_dev

> Note: This issue has been fixed since AOSP 12.0 v400.e

### Touchscreen Issue
The touchscreen might be irresponsive on the left/right edge of the screen. Simple workaround is to stop aptouch service as root:

    stop aptouch
 
Or using `adb shell`:

    adb root
    adb shell stop aptouch

### decrypt fstab for Huawei kirin 960
In order for you to decrypt you need to use emui 9.0 base stock not 9.1(9.1 is erofs which it's read only filesystem that can't be mounted), find the fstab.hi3660 in vendor/etc, then edit the fstab just remove the "encrypxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx20m" after do a factory reset from stock recovery 

### Magisk Support 
You can install Magsik v25+ for Based EMUI 9 or EMUI 8 Devices,Even you Use GSI.      
You need download Magsik APP in **[Github releases](https://github.com/topjohnwu/Magisk/releases).**  
Then you cna use adb to install.      
Please note that,**EMUI 9 don't have RAMDISK**.    
So,you need extract **RECOVERY_RAMDIS.img in UPDATA.APP**.You need this page to find your firmware.**[HUAWEI FIRM FINDER V2.0](https://professorjtj.github.io/v2/)**   
Then,follow the guide.Full install guide in here:**[Installation](https://topjohnwu.github.io/Magisk/install.html)**

Commit message:

added my testing with havocos in huawei p10 emui 9.1

Huawei-P10-and-P10-Plus.md, after:

# Device Version for Huawei P10 or P10 Plus  
## VTR(P10)  
* VTR-AL00 -- CN Version(No SIM card restriction)   
* VTR-TL00 -- CN Version(China Mobile Company Customized version)  
* VTR-L09 -- Europe Version  
* VTR-L29 -- For Global Market Version  
  
## VKY(P10 Plus)  
* VKY-AL00 -- CN Version(No SIM card restriction) 
* VKY-TL00 -- CN Version(China Mobile Company Customized version)  
* VKY-L09 -- Europe Version
* VKY-L29 -- For Global Market Version  
  
***  

# GSI Test List  
**This list will tell you which GSI systems have been tested. If you have some problems and functional errors, please browse the following content first.**  
> Warning bulletin board：  
>> * Android 13 For Huawei P10 or P10 Plus is instable.You will face no SIM card recognition, no signal, and some hardware cannot be used or even not boot.  
>> * There are two kinds of storage chips for CN version devices, EMMC and UFS.Europe and Global Market Version Only UFS Chips.So this sometimes leads to some hidden errors.  
>> * New Version Android 13 fixed the boot issues.(Pixel Experience(Android 13)).  
>> * LineageOS 20 - Light Version won't boot!!(2022.11.09)
  
Europe or Global Version Tested List:  
***
Before Android 13:  
* Tested LineageOS on Huawei P10 Plus (VKY-L29)  
* Tested AOSP 10/11/12 on Huawei P10 (VTR-L29 9.0.1.201)  
***
Andriod 13+:
* Tested **[Pixel Experience (Android 13)](https://sourceforge.net/projects/altairfr-huawei/files/PixelExp/PixelExperience-13.0-20220930-iceows-ane.7z/download)** (VTR-L29 9.0.1.190)  
 
***
 
CN Version Tested List:  
***
Before Android 13:  
* Tested AOSP 12 on Huawei P10 (VTR-AL00 9.0.1.179(C00E65R1P12))  
* Tested **[Pixel Experience (Based Android 12)](https://github.com/ponces/treble_build_pe/releases)** on Huawei P10 (VTR-AL00 9.0.1.179(C00E65R1P12)),If you want use **Pixel Experience (Based Android 12)** ,you only can install slim version.Because system partition too small.Unless you use **TWRP + Parted** for system partition expansion.   
***    
Android 13+：
* Tested **[Pixel Experience (Based Android 13)](https://github.com/ponces/treble_build_pe/tree/thirteen)**.Version 2022.11.13.Work and fine.SIM Card,NFC,WLAN,Audio is work fine.

Android 10:
i have tested Havoc-OS-v3.12-20201230-Official-arm64-ab.img in Huawei P10 VTR-L09 with EMUI 9.1
the phone app and the media keeps crashing, no sim detected. 

Tips:  
**Recommended Android GSI version:Android Q(Android 10).**  For Kirin 960, this version of Android can be used daily and is the most fluent.Some errors can be corrected in **Known issues**.  
> For example:Lineage OS 17,Havoc-OS v3.12 or else.  
  
## Unlock Bootloader Tool  
**[PotatoNV](https://github.com/mashed-potatoes/PotatoNV)**  
This is a Kirin SoC Unlock Bootloader Tool.Due to the particularity of partition locking designed by Huawei, Huawei mobile phones actually include two types of partition locking.One is called USER LOCK and the other is called BL LOCK.Unlock the BL LOCK only can flash the system,boot，recovery,userdata and more.Unlock the USER LOCK can flash the kernel，ODM，product and more.So you need unlock the all lock to flash the kernel or upgrade/downgrade to EMUI 5/8/9.  
This tool will help you unlock all lock.  
Tips:  
* First, please follow the official text and video tutorial of PotatoNV.
* Then,When you use the engineering boot file to enter a special fastboot mode, select the **Disable FBLock** option.This option will let you unlock the **USER LOCK**.  
* Next, you will restart to enter the normal fastboot mode. This is where you will see your device display unlocked. But you haven't completely unlocked it.At the same time, the PotatoNV will display a random 16 bit unlock code.
* Use the unlock code,in fastboot mode,enter the code. XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX is your 16 bit unlock code. 
` fastboot oem unlock XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX`  
* This time is really unlock all partition.
 
## Kernel Require
**Some GSI need SELinux is permissive mode.So you need flash the custom kernel. Because official Kernel don't have permissive mode.**  
> EMUI 8 Version:  
> > * [Proto8](https://forum.xda-developers.com/t/kernel-eas-8-0-8-1-9-0-gpusc-proto8-kernel-ofast.3780551/):Stable for All Version P10 or P10 Plus devices.  
> > * [HyperPlus Kernel](https://forum.xda-developers.com/t/kernel-eas-hyperplus-kernel-for-p10-p10-plus.3753128/):Stable for All Europe or Global Version P10 and P10 Plus devices.If your CN version device storage chip is ufs, you can use this kernel.Else you will get boot loop.   

  
> EMUI 9 Version:  
>> For CN Version:  
>> * **Recommended kernel:[Pangu Kernel](https://github.com/maimaiguanfan/android_kernel_huawei_hi3660).**  

## Hardware Support

No issues comparing stock Huawei ROM

## Known issues  
  
> If you have magisk, you can use this module to easily solve touchscreen and speakers issues.  
> [Android10 and 11 GSI Generic Fix Module For Huawei P10(Support Android 12 too.)](https://github.com/Coconutat/GSI_Generic_Fix_Magisk_Module_For_Huawei_P10)  

On Oreo vendor:
- Q roms do not boot. (Tested with 8.0.0.386)
- Oreo rom (8.1) did not boot for Snuupy.
- P roms work great and I think it could be used as daily drivers.

On Pie vendor:
- Q/R/S roms boot. Could be used as daily drivers.

* Speakers: Audio playback through speaker not working properly. Audio works through the 3.5mm jack. (Tested with both 9.1.0.252 and 9.0.1.185)
> Fixed on AOSP 12.0 v400.e

> See Fixes Below

* Touchscreen: Left and Right edge of the screen might not respond to touch due to Huawei aptouch service.
> See Fixes Below

* Camera:
> Ugly LineageOS stock camera app, OpenCamera is good but with slow autofocus.

There is a way to run [stock camera app (XDA)](https://forum.xda-developers.com/showpost.php?p=76662319&postcount=225) under LineageOS.

* SIM
> LineageOS asking to reboot when pulling in/out the SIM card. Just reject this requests.

> USSD (like *100#) requests are not working

> USSD seems to be working fine on EMUI 9.0 vendor (Tested on P10, test for yourself)

* WiFi, Mobile Data
> Working perfectly

> Mobile Data on Android 12 requires tuning on Phh Treble Settings > IMS features > Request IMS network

* Fingerprint Reader
> Working perfectly (Broken on Android 12 v400.e)

* Face unlock
> are now available on Pixel Experience v402 

* Fast charging
> Working perfectly

## Installation process

### Prerequisites:

* Stock EMUI 8.0/EMUI 9.0 by Huawei (tested from VKY-L29C10B362/VKY-AL00C00 8.0.0.358/VTR-L29C185E3R1P9T8)
* Unlocked bootloader

### Installation steps:

* Backup all your internal-storage stuff
* Perform factory reset using **stock Recovery**
* Install GSI image using fastboot as described on XDA

### Superuser (root) and/or Google Apps, if you wish:

* Install TWRP using fastboot from [here (XDA)](https://forum.xda-developers.com/p10-plus/development/recovery-twrp-3-2-1-0-oreo-t3734993)
* Reboot to TWRP pressing VolumeUp till it's loaded
* Leave system non-modified when TWRP ask for it
* In TWRP: install LineageOS **addonsu** from [LineageOS Extras](https://download.lineageos.org/extras) for arm64 v15.1
* In TWRP: install [from MindTheGapps](http://downloads.codefi.re/jdcteam/javelinanddart/gapps) the file MindTheGapps-8.1.0-arm64-20180320_011441.zip

### TWRP: important note

**DO NOT factory reset user data using TWRP,  ever!** This will break your internal storage! If you need to perform factory reset - flash stock Recovery using fastboot and wipe data in it.

If you will wipe data in TWRP, the LineageOS will not be able to write to userdata (/data) partition, initial device setup will not finish ever.

### Google Apps (GApps)

Why MindTheGapps??? Because [OpenGApps](https://opengapps.org/) is not working. When installing using TWRP it's rising error 20 detecting that we have wrong Android (it minds that we have Android 7.1.2 with wrong SDK level).

#### Note: OpenGapps for Android 9.0 (Pie) is now working for Pie GSIs.

## Fixes

### Fix for Speakers
Audio through speakers can be fixed by running these commands as root for every boot:

    chown root:audio /dev/nxp_smartpa_dev
    chmod 0660 /dev/nxp_smartpa_dev

Or running commands using `adb shell`:

    adb root
    adb shell chown root:audio /dev/nxp_smartpa_dev
    adb shell chmod 0660 /dev/nxp_smartpa_dev

> Note: This issue has been fixed since AOSP 12.0 v400.e

### Touchscreen Issue
The touchscreen might be irresponsive on the left/right edge of the screen. Simple workaround is to stop aptouch service as root:

    stop aptouch
 
Or using `adb shell`:

    adb root
    adb shell stop aptouch

### decrypt fstab for Huawei kirin 960
In order for you to decrypt you need to use emui 9.0 base stock not 9.1(9.1 is erofs which it's read only filesystem that can't be mounted), find the fstab.hi3660 in vendor/etc, then edit the fstab just remove the "encrypxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx20m" after do a factory reset from stock recovery 

### Magisk Support 
You can install Magsik v25+ for Based EMUI 9 or EMUI 8 Devices,Even you Use GSI.      
You need download Magsik APP in **[Github releases](https://github.com/topjohnwu/Magisk/releases).**  
Then you cna use adb to install.      
Please note that,**EMUI 9 don't have RAMDISK**.    
So,you need extract **RECOVERY_RAMDIS.img in UPDATA.APP**.You need this page to find your firmware.**[HUAWEI FIRM FINDER V2.0](https://professorjtj.github.io/v2/)**   
Then,follow the guide.Full install guide in here:**[Installation](https://topjohnwu.github.io/Magisk/install.html)**
